LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Raising a number n to a power of p is the same as multiplying n by itself p times. Write a
function called power( ) that takes a double value for n, int value for p and returns the result as
double value . Use a default argument of 2 of p, so that if this argument is omitted, the number
will be squared. Write a main ( ) function that gets values from the user to test this function .
2. A point on the two dimensional plane can be represented by two numbers: an X coordinate and
a Y coordinate. For example (4,5) represents point 4 unit to the right of origin along the X axis
and 5 units up the y-axis . The sum of the two points can be defined as new point whose X and
Y coordinates.
Write a program that uses a structure called point to model a point . Define three points and
have the user input values to two of them. Than set the third point equal to the sum of the other
two. And display the value of new points. Interaction with the program might look like this.
Enter Coordinate of P1: 3 4
Enter Coordinate of P2: 5 7
Coordinates of P1+P2 are : 8 11
3. Create the equivalent of four function calculator . The program should request
the to user to enter a number , an operator and another number . It should carry
out the specified arithmetical
operation: adding, subtracting, multiplying ,or dividing the two numbers. (it should use a switch
statement to select the operation ) finally it should be display the result. When it finishes the
calculation, the program should ask if the user want to do another calculation. The response
can be ‘Y’ or ‘N’, Some sample interaction with the program might look like this.
Enter first number ,operators and second
number 12+100 Answer =112
Do another (Y/N)?N
58
4. A phone no. such as (212)767-8900 , can be thought of as having three parts area code(212), the
exchange (767) and the number (8900). Write a program that uses a structure to store these
three parts of phone both no. separately . Call the structure phone . create two structure Enter
your area code Exchange and number : 415 555 1212
My number is (415)555-1212
5. Create two classes DM and DB which stores the value of distances DM stores distance in meters and
centimeters and DB in feet and inches . Write a program that can read value for the classes objects
and add one object of DM with another object DB.
Use a friend function to carry out the addition operation .The object that stores the result may be a Dm object
or DB object depending on the units in which result are required .
The display should be in the format of feet and inches or meters and centimeters depending on the object on
display.
6. Create a class rational which represents numerical value by two double value
NUMERATOR & DENOMENATOR . Include the following public member
functions:
· Constructor with no arguments.(defaults)
· Constructor with two arguments.
· Void reduce() that reduce the rational number by eliminating the highest common factor
between the numerator and denominator .
· Overload +operator to add two rational number
· Overload operator >> operator to be enabled input through cin
· Overload <<operator to be enabled input through count.
Write a main ( ) to test all the functions in the class
7. Consider the following class definition class father {
Protected : int age;
Public:
Father (int x) {age = x;} Virtual void iam ()
{
{cout <<”I AM THE FATHER , my age is “,<<age<<endl;}
};
Derive the two classes son and daughter from the above classes and for each define iam() to write our
similar but appropriate message .You should also define suitable constructors for these classes Now
write a main ( ) that creates objects of three classes and then call iam( ) them .Declare pointer to
father , successively assign addresses of object of the two derived classes to this pointer and in each
case , call iam( ) through the pointer to demonstrate polymorphism in action.
8. Write a program that create a binary files by reading the data from the students from the terminal.
The data of each student consist of roll no, name( a string of 30 or lesser no. of character) and marks.
9. A hospital wants to create a database regarding its indoor patients. The information to store include.
a) Name of the patient
b) Date of admission
c) Disease
d) Date of discharge
Create a structure to store the data (year, month, date as its members). Create a base class to store the
above information. The member function should include function to enter information and display a
list of all the patients in database Create a drive class to store the age of patients. List the information
about all to store the age of the patients. List the information about all the pediatric (less then twelve
years in age)
59
10. Makes a class Employee with the name and salary . Makes a class manager inherit from the
Employee Add an instance variable named :department, type : string. Supply a method to String
that print the manager’s name, department and salary. Make a class Executive inherit from
information store in the manager super class object . Supply a test program that test these classes
and methods.
11. Imagine a tollbooth with a class called Toll booth . The two data item are a type unsigned into to
hold the total number of cars and type double to hold the total amount of money collected . A
constructor initializes both these to 0. A member function called nopaycar( ). Increments the car
total and adds 0.50 to the cash total. Another function, called nopaycar( ), increment the car total
but adds nothing to the cash total. Finally , a member function called display the two totals .
Include a program to test this class . This program should allow the user to push one key to count
paying a car and another to count a non paying car . Pushing the ESC key should cause the
program to print out the total cars and total cash and then exit.
12. Write a function called reverse it ( ) that reverses a string( an array of char ) use a for loop that swap
the first and last characters, then the second and next to last character and so on .
the string should be passed to reversesit ( ), and print out the result. Use an input method that
allows embedded blanks. Test the program with Napoleon’s famous phrase , “Able was I ere I saw
Elba”.
13. Create some objects of the string class, and put them in a Deque – some at the head of the Deque
and some at the tail. Display the contents of the Deque using the for Each( ) function and a user
written display function . Then search the Deque for a particular strings, using the first That ( )
Function and display any string that match, finally remove all the item from the date using the get
left( ) Function and display each item. Not ice is the order in which the item are displayed: Using
Get Left ( ), Those inserted on the left ( head),of the Deque are removed in “last and first out”
order while those put on the right side are removed in “first in first out” order. The opposite
would be true if Get right ( ) were used
14. Assume that a blank maintain two kinds of accounts for customer. One called as saving accounts
and another is current account . The saving account provides compound interest and withdrawal
facility but no cheque book facility, The current account provides cheque book facility but no
interest Current account holders should also maintain a minimum balance and if the balance false
below this level , a service charge is imposed.
Create a class account that store customer name, account number and type of account. From this
drive the classes cur_acct and sav_account to make them more specific to their requirement. Include
necessary member function in order to achieve the following task
a) Accept deposit from a customer and update the balance
b) Display the balance
c) Compute and deposit interest
d) Permit withdrawal and update the balance
e) Check for the minimum balance, impose penalty ,necessary and update the balance. f) Do not
use any
constructor , use member function to initialize the class members
15. Create a base class called shape .Use this class to store two double type values that could be used to
compute the area of figure, Derive to specific classes called triangle and rectangle from the base
shape . Add to the base class, a member function get data ( ) to initialize base class data member
and another member function display area ( ), To compute and display the area of figures make
display area ( ) as virtual function and redefine this function in the derived classes to suit the
requirements.
60
Using this three classes design a program that will accept dimension of triangle or rectangle
interactively and display the area
Remember the two value given as input will be treated as length of two sides in the case of
rectangle and as base and height in the case of triangle and used as follows
Area of rectangle= x * y
Area of triangle =1/2 * x * y
Programming of exercise in C++ in the form of project ( based on “object oriented programming in
TURBO C++”) , Robert lafore , Galgotia Publication Pvt. Ltd.1994 to be done in consultation with
the faculty incharge for the course
Note: Record to be maintained both electronically and hard copy of evaluation